=CopyOrExpand=

==Syntax==
{{{
CopyOrExpand,<FileToCopyOrExpand>,<DestinationFolderOrFilename>[,PRESERVE, NOWARN]
}}}
This is a very flexible command that is designed for cases where we either need to Copy or Expand a file.

It was implemented to ease the task of copying files from Install CD's where often a specified can be present either in normal or compressed format.

These compressed files often use the cabinet archiving method and usually have an identifiable character _ as the last character of their extensions. (e.g. myFile.Tx_ ). When this file is expanded a new file with a full extension is retrieved.

*_!DestinationFolderOrFilename_* means that you can either specify a folder where this file will be placed with the original (expanded) filename or new filename that you prefer. 

== Example ==
In this example !CopyOrExpand will first try to find a file {{{c:\MyPath\myTextFile.txt}}} and if it is not found then it will look for {{{c:\MyPath\myTextFile.tx_}}} and expand this file if successfully found. 
{{{
CopyOrExpand,c:\MyPath\myTextFile.txt,c:\MyPath\myNewerTextFile.txt
}}}

==Remarks==
WB078 added:
 * If the destination file already exists, !CopyOrExpand gives a warning in the log, and will overwrite the existing file. 
 * If the optional *PRESERVE* parameter added, !CopyOrExpand _of a single file_ will not overwrite an existing file _*however*_ a warning is still given.
 * The warning can be suppressed by an additional parameter *NOWARN*.
 * The parameters *PRESERVE*, and *NOWARN* can be used simultaneously. The order does not matter.