= {{{FileCopy}}} =

==Syntax==
{{{
FileCopy,<FromFile>,<ToDir>
}}}

This command will copy a single source file to a specified destination.
If the destination is a folder name, the file is copied there.
If the destination is a file name, the file is copied into the destination folder and finally renamed.

The command uses Win32 API as a silent operation overwriting any previously existent files. You can view the result of this operation on the respective log entry.

==WB076 added:==
FileCopy of a single file gives a warning in the log, if the destination file already exists.

==*WB078 added:==
If there is a parameter _{{{PRESERVE}}}_ added, FileCopy of a single file does not overwrite an existing file. A warning is still given.
The warning can be suppressed by an additional parameter _{{{NOWARN}}}_

The parameters PRESERVE, and NOWARN can be used simultaneously. The order does not matter.

==Example: ==
{{{
FileCopy,c:\MyPath\myText.txt,c:\AnotherPath,PRESERVE 
}}}

==Wildcards==
FileCopy supports wildcards like {{{*. * , win*.dll}}}. If used, then the command will copy all suited files and respective sub folders from a given source to a specified destination directory.

When using wildcars the warning mechanism is switched off.

Trying to copy wildcard source to a single destination file raises an error.

==WB078 added:==
When using wildcards, optional parameters can be defined: 
 * *SHOW:* - The progressbar shows single file processing, and the actual copied file name is shown. 
 * *NOREC:* - Only all suited files of the initial folder are copied. No recursion into subdirectories.

The parameters SHOW  and NOREC can be used simultaneously. The order does not matter.

== Example: ==


On this example FileCopy will copy all text files (*.txt) from MyPath and it's subdirectories to AnotherPath 
{{{
FileCopy,c:\MyPath\*.txt,c:\AnotherPath
}}}