Retrieve FolderSize/FileSize

Retrieve,FolderSizeOrFileSize,<DirectoryOrFilename>,<%var%> 
This function is used to calculated sizes and store them inside variables.
 * FolderSize is used to get the overall size of folder along with respective files and sub-folders inside.
 * FileSize will report back the filesize of the specified file
 * DirectoryOrFilename is the target, it can be a file or a directory
 * %var% is the stored value (expressed in bytes)

== Syntax example: ==
Retrieve,FolderSize,c:\myFolder,%var%
This example will write the size of myFolder as a new value for %var% 

Retrieve File/Dir

Retrieve,File/Dir,<DirectoryOrFilename>,<%var%> 
This function will bring a box asking the user to select a folder or a filename. Once a value is selected and the user clicks "Ok" to close the box, this value will be stored inside %var%
 * File is used when we want the user to select a file. You can specify the path to use and filter the accepted extensions or filenames to be accepted
 * Dir will open a box allowing the user to select a folder, you can specify where the initially selected folder is placed.
 * %var% is the stored value of the selected filename or foldername

== Syntax example: ==
Retrieve,File,c:\*.txt,%var%

You can use this example to open a box asking the user to select a file. This box will start in c:\ and will only display files that match the filter criteria which is *.txt on this case. Once a file is selected, the %var% will contain the full filename of this selected file. 

Retrieve MD5

Retrieve,MD5,<Filename>,<%var%> MD5 is a way to calculate a number known as a 'hash' or 'checksum' that is based on the filesize of a file.

It is used as a safety check to ensure that files are complete when they are downloaded from a server. You can also call this function to ensure that your files were not modified. 

== Syntax example: ==
Retrieve,MD5,c:\MyText.txt,%var%

This function will write the value of the MD5 result on %var%, you can compare against a security value written elsewhere to prove that your file is intact.


Retrieve FileVersion

Retrieve,FILEVERSION,<Filename>,<%var%>
== Syntax example: == Retrieve,FILEVERSION,”c:\Program Files\IrfanView\i_view32.exe”,%var%
This example fills %var% with the file version string, as it can be seen by EXE-file’s properties.