=Compatibility =

 * !WinBuilder.exe is supported on Most modern windows operating systems. It may use Internet Explorer to access help pages and use the Web tab.

 * It won't require any .NET framework or any similar component. It is mostly a standalone application without special external dependencies. (you can even disable network access).

 * !WinBuilder itself can run quite happily both on FAT32 or NTFS partitions.

 * On Vista and later versions,  it will be necessary (in most cases) to disable UAC (User Account Control) to allow creation of the needed registry hives when building a new boot disk. 

<br>
<br>
----
----
<br>
=Troubleshooting =
When a command doesn't work as expected you should follow these steps to ensure that it is a true bug and not a human error:
 * Check the source code and see if the syntax is correct
 * Add small tests to the used variables to check if the respective values are outputted correctly. (ex. echo,%myVariable%)
 * Read the special conditions under which the project has to be run (found the project page)
 * Check if there aren't any external interferences as locked files or no disk space on the target folder
 * Try whenever possible from a fresh project to avoid any chance of corrupted files or invalid project settings

If none of the above solves your issue then here's the recommended way to proceed:
 * Visit the community forums and search for similar reports of the same behavior as you notice
 * If a similar case is found you should post a reply on this topic, otherwise start a new topic in the appropriate category
 * Writing advice before posting a bug : Include a descriptive title in your message including your log.html file and a test script so that it can be debugged and used by others
 * Projects also follow their own script rules and these methods can change occasionally, whenever in doubt you should post your questions in each project forum discussion.
 * Check the forums - Changes in script language can be followed for each newer !WinBuilder as changes to the script code are suggested and debugged by other members. 

==!AntiVirus Issues==

It was occasionally reported by a few users that some !AntiVirus can interfere while scripts are copying or deleting files. It's advisable to temporarily disable the anti-virus *only when debugging* the building process to check for possible causes that keep your project from being concluded as expected.

*Under normal circumstances there is no need to disable your Antivirus.*
But, please be aware that antivirus programs will scan any files being copied which may impede performance.

<br>
<br>
----
----
<br>
=Bugs =

!WinBuilder is a tool in progress and there are always bugs being reported and properly solved, we always appreciate your feedback and reports in case a bug is found.

Bugs can be divided in two types: 
  # Core WinBuilder - Visit the [http://reboot.pro/forum/22/ forum for Winbuilder] and check if you're using the latest version. It's always good to use the latest versions since they contain several improvements at each time a new version is released. If you still have an issue, please enter a posting detailing the issue.

  # Project related - Each project also has a specific forum where all related issues and fixes can be found, please visit the respective forum page of your project and post details about the issue there.

In both cases, when reporting for a bug it is recommended that your search the forums to check if any other person has already posted a similar report and post a comment in the respective thread. Your feedback will help others who may be able to assist in quickly finding a solution.