

Installing 

This program should be placed inside an empty folder and you can all projects you wish to try from the Download Center in wb.

There are no restrictions about spaces on path names or using non-ascii characters. We're using c:\WinBuilder as an example but you can also place it on your desktop if you wish.


By default wb starts with the Recommended level and you only need to click the Download button to get the recommended files from each project.

After the initial download is concluded - the program will restart itself to start fresh and find all available projects.

These projects and files can be found under a new sub-folder called Projects.

This program is not based on static paths meaning that you can move your wb work folder to other locations and still let your projects work. 

Please read the chapters below to understand in more detail how this process works.


Important details when downloading


In the Download Center you find a few folders called Tools - althought these folders do not contain any projects at all - they do contain a small set of third party applications (tools) and files that are shared and required by projects. 

In most cases this folder only needs to be downloaded once.

Please include it when downloading files for the first time.




Download Profiles


The download center contains some servers - each server can contain hundreds of megabytes worth of project scripts and files. 

The first time you try wb - You don't need to download everything. 


To ensure that you can test each project without having to download all files - you can use the profiles box at the top of the download center window.

This box allows you to choose scripts automatically.


* Minimum - Selects newer versions of indispensable scripts
* Recommended - Only chooses newer scripts marked as recommended
* Complete - Marks all newer scripts for download
* Beta - Profile used only for beta testing.


Using this profile box you can easily select to only download the Minimum profile which is helpfull for dial-up connections. You may select the Complete download if bandwidth is not a restriction and you wish to get all available scripts. 
