=Welcome to the help pages of !WinBuilder!=

Inside this manual you'll find details and quick start guides related to !WinBuilder. If you haven't found enough information to answer your questions, please let us know what you think needs to be changed or added to make this manual easier to understand. 

You are kindly invited to place your comments here or vist us at the main [http://reboot.pro/forum/22/ WinBuilder forum].

Starting up is easy and you can do it in 3 steps. After downloading a project:
 # Start !WinBuilder.exe 
 # Select the project you want to build 
 # Adjust any configuration options, and then
 # And then just click play (the big Blue Arrow)

=Overview =

!WinBuilder is a flexible scripting environment that is well suited to building boot disks and other Windows "Pre-installation Enviroment" (or PE) images.

Using special scripts, this program can create different bootable environments based on the source that is used. 

There are several projects available for winbuilder so please remember to read the instructions found inside each project to understand which compatible sources can be used. 

Some of the features to expect from !WinBuilder include:
 * Friendly User Interface
 * Users can freely select, download, and update new scripts from the internet
 * Scripts can be configured without needing to edit any code in most cases
 * Most scripts already come included with freeware applications
 * Customizable projects, everything can be customized and improved.
 * Many built-in tools to edit and create new scripts inside wb
 * Much smaller/efficient boot-disks and more flexibility to add changes.
 * Tool specially targeted for boot method challenges.
 * Last but not least - A very active community 

This help manual is also available as a single .chm file.